--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Glossary
--------

Action
	A command with a number of parameters, controlling an aspect of the
game. They are generally fairly low level operations such as setting
a bobs image or playing a sound effect.

ActionLists
	A number of actions, executed in sequence. Actionlists are used
to initialise game objects, handle special events such as collisions,
and in any other places where the user needs to provide instructions.
Actionlists are referenced by name.

Bad Dudes
	A type of Game Object. Bad dudes may collide with Players
or Player Bullets.

ChannelRoutines
	Routines called to update game objects. Channel routines
handle things such as movement, animation and general higher-level
control.

Channels
	Update mechanisms for bob (or sprite) objects (players, bullets,
bad dudes). Channel routines are installed into channels using the
'Set Channel' action. The channel routine is then called up
automagically every game cycle to perform some action on the object.
Channels can be set up to execute a particular ActionList on the
object when the ChannelRoutine finishes. In addition, every Channel
has a timer. This can be set up when a ChannelRoutine is installed, and
counts down by one every frame. When it reaches zero, the ChannelRoutine
is stopped (and the ActionList, if any, is executed). Each object has
five channels, numbered zero to four.

Chunks
	All Conk game data is stored in chunks. Chunks may be clumped together
in files on a pretty much arbitrary basis (there are some exceptions).
For example, you could have a self-contained bad dude file which contains
bob images, anims, and actionlists for a particular type of dude.

The chunk types defined in Conk are:

ActionLists: A number of action lists
Map: A named, rectanglar grid of blocks, used as background graphics.
BlockSet: A named set of 16x16 block images used by maps.
Palette: Colour data - up to 256 colours.
ScrollWave: Scroll-dependent attackwaves. A list of bad dudes
and/or formations that appear at certain places along the map.
Sfx: Sound effects (named sound sample data)
Bob Images: A named set of bob images.
Anims: Set of named animations for a particular bob (or sprite) chunk.
Sprites: Named sprite images
Formations: Set of named dude formations
Weapons: Player weapon definitions
Display: Display info for a level - colours, background gfx,
how to initialise the players, etc...
Game Config: The overall configuration of the game. The Game Config
chunk must be the only chunk in a file - it cannot be grouped with
other chunks.
EdgeOfTheRoad: Collision info for a blockset.

Collision Partner
	Two game objects which have collided are said to be collision partners.

Context
	An ActionList used to initialise or modify a game object
is said to be running in the context of an object. The Actions
making up the ActionList have access to the attributes of that
particular object. An ActionList triggered by a collision still
runs in the context of a particular object, but will
also have access to the attributes of the objects collision
partner. Other ActionLists, such as the Game Init and Game Update
ActionLists are run without access to any objects at all. In these
ActionLists you cannot use Actions which operate on Object. Doing
so can have unpredictable results.
Some actions can be run without any object at all (global context),
others require an Object (object context), others require an object
and a collision partner (collision context) and still others must be
run on a specific type of object (player context, for example).

Direction
	Directions (angles) in Conk are represented by a fixedpoint
number ranging from 0 to 7:31 (8 would be a full circle). 0=up,
1=up/right, 2=right, 3=down/right, 4=down, 5=down/left, 6=left,
7=up/left. You can also specify intermediate angles. For example
4:16 would be half way between down and down/left.

EdgeOfTheRoad
	Collision data. An EdgeOfTheRoad chunk holds an array
of values which correspond to the blocks in a particular blockset.
Each block can have a value from zero to 255 assigned to it. During
the game, background collision routines use EdgeOfTheRoad values to
decide which type a particular block is. For example, zero might
represent space, while any other number would mean the block is
solid wall.

FixedPoint
	Conk represents fractional values using fixed point numbers, a way of
representing fractional values without resorting to (slow) floating point
methods. Fixed point numbers are displayed in the form 'whole:fractional',
where 'fractional' can range from 0 (no fractional part) through
16 (half), to 31 (just less than one). For example, -10:8 corresponds
to negative ten and a quarter, 42:1 corresponds to 42 and 1/32.
In Zonk, you can type in numbers with decimal points and it will
convert them to fixed point for you (eg 3.75 will come up as 3:24).
You can omit the fractional part (and the colon) for whole numbers.
Formation - A clump of dudes. Each dude consists of an initializing
ActionList, an XY offset from the origin of the formation, and
a delay value (in cycles) to say when it appears.

Frame
	The basic slice of time in a Conk game. Every frame, all the active
objects are updated and moved and then a new screen is drawn up and
displayed. There are typically 25 or 50 frames calculated every second
in Conk to provide convincing animation.

Game Object
	Refers to a Player, Player Bullet, or Bad Dude. Objects have attributes
(image, position, speed etc) which are controlled by actionlists and
channelroutines. Every frame during gameplay, Ponk updates every active
object by calling any ChannelRoutines that are installed. The object is
then moved by adding its XSpd to XPos and its YSpd to YPos.

Level
	A section of a game. Usually refers to a Game Level, made up
using Zonk, but there are also Anim and Pic levels where IFF Anims
or Pictures are displayed. Levels are defined in the Game Config
Editor in Zonk. A level is defined by specifying which files it needs.
for example, in a Game level, one of the files must contain a Display
chunk which tells Ponk how to set the level up. The Display chunk
will contain references to other chunks (ActionLists, Map, etc...)
which Ponk will look for within the listed files.

Object
	See "Game Object"

Player
	A type of game object. Conk supports up to four players (at the
moment). Players may collide with bad dudes.

Player Bullets
	A type of game object. Player Bullets may collide with bad dudes.

ScrollWaves
	A ScrollWave Chunk is a list of attack waves, each keyed to
certain trigger points along the game area. An attackwave may be
either a single dude or a formation of dudes. Each wave can have
a left trigger point and a right trigger point (or both). The
trigger points are checked against the left and right edges of the
screen as it scrolls.

Weapon Bays
	Each player object has 16 weapon bays into which weapons can be
installed. The bays can be used in any way you like. For example,
for a shootemup game, you could say that bay 1 is for the front
weapon, 2 is rear fire, 3 is sideshot and 4 is superweapon. Each
bay can be powered up (or down) individually. There are Actions
and channelroutines which let you specify which weapon bays to use
when the fire button is pressed.

Weapons
	A Weapon is a named entity consisting of an ActionList to execute
when fired, links to other weapons for powering up and down, fire
rate and the maximum number of bullets it can have active at any
one time. When fired, a weapon can either create a new PlayerBullet
object and execute an ActionList upon it, or execute an ActionList
directly on the Player Object firing the weapon.

Variables
	You can access game variables using Actions. Some variables are
global and are always accessible, while other variables are local
to game objects, and can only be accessed from an ActionList under
Object context. If you try to access a variable from the wrong context
you can trash memory and cause crashes. All the variables hold fixed
point values.
The global variables are 'Global1' through to 'Global5'. These are
general purpose variables which you can use any way you like. For
example, you could use one to store the number of bad dudes currently
active. Whenever a new dude is created you increment the variable by
one. Whenever a dude dies you decrement the count by one. When the
count hits zero you can trigger the next level.
Variables local to game objects are:
'Damage': How much damage this object will inflict on another objects
shields in a collision (using the 'Get Hurt' action).
'Data1','Data2': Two general purpose variables. Use them for whatever
you like (but remember they are only seen by that one object).
'Direction': Used by some movement routines. Of course you can manually
alter this value as well (handy for augmenting existing movement
routines). The highest number you can store in 'Direction' is 7:31.
After this value it wraps back to zero (you do the full circle).
'ID': Really another general purpose variable, but the idea is that you
use this value to identify objects during collsions - you give each
object a unique 'ID' and then check the value in a collision. Handy for
determining between, say, real bad dudes and bonuses (which you'd probably
use a bad dude object for as well).
'Shields': The state of an objects health. If this falls below zero then
the objects Death ActionList is called. Note that this value is only
checked by the 'GetHurt' Action when it is subtracting damage.
'XPos','YPos': The position of the game object, in pixels, relative to
the background (which could be very large if you are using a background
map). 0,0 is at the top left corner.
'XSpd','YSpd': The current speed of the object. These values are
automatically added to 'XPos' and 'YPos' every frame.
